Good morning.
My name is Dan Keen.
I am an iPhone software engineer,
and I'd like to start out by
actually showing you a demo of
what you're going to be able to
do when you have finished here.
So if we could go to the wolf, please.
So the product that I'm actually
trying to show you here is--
it's called Restaurant Viewer.
It's a sample code that
you'll be able to download.
And it's pretty straightforward.
Here we have Lebec Fin.
It's a restaurant in Philadelphia.
And the first thing I'm going
to show you is that this app
supports rotation natively.
I've slowed down the rotation
animation on this phone.
So you'll find that when
I rotate it-- when I rotate it--
that the stars are moving to a
different location underneath the title,
the descriptions moving
over to the right,
and everything is animating very nicely.
If we rotate it back,
you'll see that again,
everything animates very nicely.
In addition,
there's a nice Categorize button here.
If we click it,
a sheet is going to pop up,
and Lebec Fin happens to
be a French restaurant,
so let's categorize it as French.
So you touch French,
and the restaurant name animates
there very nicely and disappears.
So at the end of this talk,
I'm going to actually walk you through
setting up all the code to do that.
So if we go back to slides.
So as you know, we're here to talk about
three things today.
Controls-- no, hang on.
hitting the backwards button.
Awesome.
We're here to talk about controls, views,
and animation.
So the first thing is controls.
What are controls?
Well, we're going to go through
some sample controls to use,
and how exactly to use these controls.
We're also going to talk about views.
We're going to say how
do views actually work,
and we're going to give you some
examples of nesting and translation.
You'll see here that the control
that's above is actually a
combination of several sub views.
And finally, we'll talk about animation.
So here we're going to
talk about some flexible,
fast techniques to use for animation
to give your apps impressive,
yet useful bling.
So here I just want to say, well,
what does that mean exactly?
Useful bling?
Bling isn't useful.
It's just pretty.
Here we have an example movie where
you're clicking on the Groups button,
and everything's animating
out to the right.
If we actually were to
look at this closely,
the All Contacts is moving
out to the right and fading.
The Plus button actually doesn't move.
It just fades.
And the Groups button is
actually moving over and cross
fading into the Groups title.
So those three different
animations are actually providing
a lot of context to your user,
and giving them an idea of
what's exactly happening.
It keeps them focused
on the content itself.
It's not really superfluous.
But before we get into
controls or animations,
we first need to talk about views.
Some of this might be a review for some
people that have attended other sessions,
but let's still go through it.
So what is a view?
Well, a UI view inherits from NSObject,
which is our base class.
From there, inherits from UI Responder.
UI Responder actually deals with
handling the event forwarding chains.
And then from there, we get UIView.
OK, so a UIView is a UI responder,
which is an NSObject.
Awesome.
What does that actually mean?
Well, a UI view,
before we actually talk about
the UI views and how they
handle the drawing contents,
we first need to say,
where is it actually going to
draw the content on the screen?
So most of you are probably
familiar with the coordinate system.
In our case, the coordinate origin is up
in the top left of the device.
If you're familiar with AppKit,
it's on the bottom left.
So this is going to be a difference
for you if you're used to AppKit.
All right,
so now we have a coordinate system.
So how do we actually lay out our views?
So what is a view, again?
A view is just a rectangle in space.
It occupies a quadrilateral region.
That's pretty straightforward.
How do you define this region in space?
Well, the way we do it is we
use a CGRect struct.
A CGRect struct has an origin and a size.
So in this example,
the origin of this view is at 20, 0.
So it's over 20 units and down 0.
And the size of this rectangle is
actually 200 in width and 100 in height.
So the second parameter to a CGRect is
not actually where the lower point is.
It's the size offset from the origin.
It's just a nice thing to keep in mind.
All right,
so that's some basic UI view stuff.
Pretty straightforward where
you are going to put your views,
how you do with that stuff.
What about a control?
Well,
we saw this inheritance chain already.
How does control fit into here?
A control actually just
inherits from UIView.
So what does control give you?
I mean, it's just a view, right?
Well, actually,
a control already sets up a bunch
of the handling of events for you.
For instance,
let's say that you wanted to handle
a button up press in your control.
There's a way to set the
target for an action.
So we have this Add Target action
for Control Events call.
In this example, we have a Dismiss button
in the top left here,
and we're going to do the
action on the target down here.
So the way you're going to do this
with the Add Target action for control
events is the control event that we
care about here is a UI touch up inside.
This is your equivalent to a mouse
up inside that you might be more
familiar with other things like AppKit.
So we pass this for control events.
We set the action to be
dismiss on the target,
because that's actually what
we're going to be doing.
And then we call add target
action for control events.
That's all you have to do.
And then when you
actually touch up inside,
the UI control will automatically
send the dismiss call to your target.
So this is very easy to use.
Now, if you're more familiar
with things like mouse down,
mouse up, mouse dragged, stuff like that,
there's actually a pretty
easy correlation between that
and what we're doing here.
You replace the word mouse with touch,
and you're pretty much done.
UI mouse up inside would
become UI touch up inside.
Some commonly used UI control
events that you might care about.
UI control event touch up inside,
as we were just saying.
That's equivalent to a
mouse up inside the button.
UI control event touch down.
That would be your initial mouse down
in case you wanted to change your state.
And if you were really fancy and
you were supporting multi-touch,
there's also UI control
event touch down repeat.
And I want to point out that
UI control events is a bit mask.
So if you wanted to do the same
action on multiple control events,
all you have to do is bit
or these values together,
and you do it.
So that's how to use controls.
How about some example controls?
Well, here I have three very
commonly used controls.
The first one is UIButton.
In this example, it's a UIButton of the
style rounded rect.
This is all provided for you.
The second one is UISegmentedControl.
And the third one is UISlider.
The nice things about things
like segmented control and slider
is that all the logic about how
to highlight certain segments,
how to respond to sliders,
callbacks for you, and all that stuff is
already done for you.
So all you have to do is
actually implement one of those,
and you get the proper callbacks
for what you're trying to do.
Now, this is just three examples.
There are a lot more.
I highly recommend you download
the UI Catalog example from
developer.apple.com/iphone.
It will show you all of-- well,
maybe not all, but pretty much all of the
controls that are built into UIKit.
And it'll also,
because they're all there,
it'll show you how to use them.
The sample code shows
you how to wire them up,
et cetera.
All right,
so now we've talked about controls.
But before, we were talking about views.
And you saw in my first overview slide
that we had these subviews within Views.
And they expanded out nicely for that
navigation bar that we were showing you.
Well, how does that work?
So views can contain subviews.
Here we have that navigation
bar again split out.
And we'll see that they all
go back into the subview.
Well, how does this work?
When you add a view as a
subview of another view,
let's say you have
this coordinate system,
right?
And your origin is here,
and then the view that
you're adding to is up here.
What happens when that
view's origin moves?
You don't want to be paying
attention to that as a subview,
right?
So what we do is the coordinate system
translates as you add into subviews.
So when you call a frame,
which you might have seen
in other presentations,
what does that actually mean?
So frame gives you your coordinate
system in the superview's coordinates.
So in this case,
the all contacts would be offset by 40,
50 pixels here in the x direction.
So that would be the origin
of the frame for that.
Bounds is a different call.
Bounds tries-- it tries to give you
your frame in your coordinate system.
So in that case,
if you call bounds on all contacts,
the origin will actually be at 0, 0.
Now, there are some special cases
where bounds is not at 0,
0 in the origin.
For instance, you see why scroll view.
That's a very special case.
For the most part,
you will not have to worry about that.
So you can assume that bounds is 0, 0.
Bounds is very nice to be used when
you're laying out your subviews,
because frame is-- is
superview coordinates,
right?
So if you get your own bounds,
that's corresponding to what
this subviews frame relates to,
right?
So if you get your bounds,
then you lay out the
subviews within those bounds,
everything works really nicely.
And we'll see that in later demos.
All right, so I've been talking
about controls and views,
coordinate systems,
all this awesome stuff.
It's pretty boring, right?
You've fallen asleep.
Let's talk about animations instead.
So how do we do animations on the iPhone?
We have a UIView animation
category on UIView.
This is how we do almost
all the animations that
you've seen on the iPhone.
There are no animators.
There's no callback-based
animation on the iPhone.
We're not going to call you
back every single frame to say,
all right, where is your position now?
Because of this,
the animations are very fast.
You're not having to
recalculate every time.
We're not doing this because we actually
use core animation for all of the
animations that you're going to be doing
using the UIView animation category.
It's a transparent usage of it for you.
As we all know,
core animation is very fast.
Why is core animation fast?
That's because core animation
uses the hardware render.
So it's automatically
hardware accelerated for you.
You don't have to think about,
is this going to be able
to be accelerated or not?
If you're using UIView animations, it is.
You're done.
All right, so how do we actually do this?
The first thing I'm going to note is
that UI view animations are asynchronous.
You set up a delegate and callback
for when the animation is done.
But while the animation is happening,
you actually-- it's not a
callback based animation.
You're not getting callbacks every frame,
so you don't really have
control during that time.
Unfortunately,
your app does have control.
As soon as you finish the animation,
control is going to return back
to the main thread of your app.
So basically,
you're going to set up animation.
Then once you've done that,
you're going to commit the
animations to be rendered.
That information is going to then be
off-laid to the hardware renderer.
And during the animation time,
the hardware renderer is going to
be taking care of that for you.
And then when it's done,
it's going to give you your callback.
All right, easy enough.
However, during this block of time here,
your app still has control, right?
You can still do whatever you want.
In fact,
you might decide that you want to
calculate what the thousandth prime is,
because that's going to be what
your user actually cares about next.
If you do that,
you are going to slow down the animation.
The animation does run
in the hardware renderer,
but there's shared resources.
There's a shared memory buffer.
It's going to be asking to
pass information over to it,
et cetera.
So even though Flow is going
to return to your program,
don't do stuff here.
This is how we try to make our
animations as fast as possible.
Just consider it dead time.
You're not supposed to be doing
anything during that time.
So how about some common things that you
might want to do with a UIView animation?
All the animations by default
have a certain duration.
If you want to change that duration,
for instance, if you want to slow down
the rotation animation,
you call setAnimationDuration
with the time interval.
Let's say you wanted to change
the curve of the animation.
By default, these curves are ease in,
ease out.
What this means is that
they accelerate up to speed,
and then when they get
to the end of the curve,
they decelerate.
If you wanted to set
this to ease in only,
or ease out only,
or even just linear animation,
you do that by calling setAnimationCurve.
Finally, as we've all said,
there are these callbacks at the end.
You can change what the callback is,
who gets called back.
So you do that by calling
setAnimationDelegate and
setAnimationDidStopSelector.
You might want to do this if
you have different selectors for
different animation finishing.
All right,
so that's all pretty straightforward,
right?
How do we actually use this stuff?
So a little slide demo here.
Let's say we just wanted
to fade a view out.
So the first thing we need to do is
we need to create a UIView animation.
So we do that by calling
UIView begin animations,
my animation, context nil.
All right,
so there are two parameters here.
The first one is my animation.
The second one is context.
What do these actually mean?
The first one names your animation so
that when the animation is finished and
you get your did stop selector callback,
it actually passes back the
name of the animation to you.
And you can use this to decide, OK,
which animation actually finished,
because you could have multiple
animations going on at once.
As we showed in the navigation
bar in the beginning,
when you clicked on the Groups button,
there are actually
three animations there.
And each one of them is probably named
a little bit differently so that you can
respond to its did finish differently.
The context is what gets passed back
to your desktop selector as well in
case you need to use it for anything,
such as removing buttons or whatever.
All right, so now we're actually going
to fade out the view itself.
How do we do this?
Well, we get our view and we
set its alpha to zero.
So we already have the view, you know,
this is slide code, my view,
and we call setAlpha to zero.
That's it.
We're done for that.
And then we have to commit
the animation to the renderer.
And so we call UIViewCommitAnimations.
That's it.
That's all you have to
do to fade out a view.
This is very, very easy to do.
Now, what I want to point out is that we
set this alpha property on the view,
right?
You can set as many
properties as you want.
You can set the frame.
You can set the bounds.
You can set all kinds of things.
What I want to point out is that
this is a stacked animation.
So if we call setAlpha within this block,
and then we call setAlpha again,
let's say we call setAlpha
0.5 first and then 0 second,
you might all expect it to go from
where it currently is at 1 to 0.
But that's not actually what happens.
Because it's a stacked animation,
the animation takes the previous value
and then just animates to the last value.
So in that case,
at the beginning of the animation,
it's going to jump immediately to 0.5,
and then it will animate nicely to 0.
This is a side effect
you might not expect.
It can actually be used to your
advantage in certain circumstances.
The easiest takeaway from this
is only set a property once.
Otherwise, you're going to end
up confusing yourself.
So with that,
I'd like to take you to a demo.
So if we go to the laptop.
All right, so basically what I was just
showing you with that slide code,
we're going to do the same thing again.
But I'm going to actually set
up a few views for you as well,
and a control,
so that we can go through all that stuff.
So here, this is called Simple Animation.
This is also available as a
download from the sample site.
This actually is not going to
be exactly the same as what
you'll see on the sample site.
On the sample site,
we set up all the UI through
Interface Builder,
because that's much more common.
That's what you're
probably going to be doing.
But here, for the example of this talk,
we're actually going to be
doing it all manually ourselves.
So the first thing we're going
to be doing is application
did finish launching.
We're just going to be doing
everything in the delegate.
Again, this is a sample code.
This is not how a real app would behave.
What we're going to do is we're
going to create a rectangle
in the middle of our view.
So we get the bounds of the window.
As I was saying before,
the bounds is the coordinate
system in your own coordinates.
And then we're going to set up
a rectangle within these bounds.
So we set the width of the
rectangle to rectangle width and
the height to rectangle height.
And then we're actually going to center
this rectangle within the bounds.
So we do that by subtracting
from the width of the bounds,
the rectangle's width, and dividing by 2.
And the same with the height.
Pretty easy.
So now we have where the frame
of the rectangle is going to be.
The next thing we do is we create
a UI view to be this rectangle.
And we're going to make it
blue because it's pretty.
So we init with frame rectangle frame.
We set the background color of this
rectangle to be UI color blue color.
And then we add that
rectangle to our subview.
So what happens when we run this now?
As expected,
we get a nice rectangle centered
in the middle of the frame,
and it's blue.
Pretty straightforward.
We also are going to want to
have a button so we can do
something with this rectangle.
So the first thing we need to do is
we need to create this buttons frame.
So we're going to base that
on the rectangles frame.
We want the button to look
similar to the rectangle,
but we're going to move it down a bit.
And we're going to change the
height of the button a bit.
We then create the button itself.
So now we're calling
UIButtonButtonWithType
UIButtonTypeRoundedRect.
This is the same button type as
I showed you on this slide a while ago.
We're going to set the frame of
the button to the button frame.
We're going to set its title to
dismiss for the control state normal.
So as normal, it'll be dismissed.
And we're also going to
add that to our subview.
So now when we run this, as expected,
we now have a button here.
This button behaves nicely.
It highlights.
If you were to drag your finger,
it'll unhighlight,
because you're far enough away
that they expect it not to
be a touch up on the button.
But it doesn't do anything.
Well, how do we fix that?
Well,
we were talking earlier about how we call
the add target action for control events.
So we do that for this button here.
We're going to call addTargetSelf with
the action change for the control events,
UI control event, touch up inside.
And then we need to have, obviously,
that change.
OK, well, that's not really doing
anything right now.
What do we want this to do?
Well, if we were to look at the demo,
the button says Dismiss, right?
So we probably want to dismiss that
rectangle when we get the change call.
So the first thing we do
is we figure out where are we right
now when this button got clicked.
This way you don't have to keep state,
you can just look up
state when you need to.
So where is the rectangle right now?
What's its frame?
And what are the window bounds?
What's, you know, my canvas,
what am I laying this out in?
And then we need to figure out are
we sliding this rectangle off screen
or are we bringing it back on screen.
Easy way to do that is to look at
the origin of the rectangle's frame.
If it's outside of the
bounds of the window,
then it's already off screen, right?
Because it's all the way over there.
So we're sliding out if
it's still on screen,
otherwise we'll be sliding in.
So now we have our state.
We know what we're going to be doing.
How do we actually handle it from here?
Well, the first thing that we want
to do is we want to call
UI application shared application
beginIgnoringInteractionEvents.
Why do we do this?
We're going to be doing an animation.
This animation is going to take time.
During that time, as we said before,
control returns back to your application.
OK?
So control returns to your application.
You've started this animation.
It's running.
The user goes ahead and clicks a button.
Were you expecting a
button press at this time?
Probably not.
You were probably changing state
of your application in some way.
And so a button press now has
perhaps unforeseen effects.
So during this time,
it's best to just ignore
interaction events.
This means any taps that the user does
will not translate to your application.
All right,
so we're now ignoring interaction events.
So now we set up the animation itself.
So we call UIView BeginAnimations.
We're going to be passing
a nil context here,
because we're not actually
going to be using it.
But we are going to pass two
different names for the animation,
depending on whether we're
sliding out or sliding back in.
These names are all defined up
here with these nice defines.
We're going to set the
duration to one second,
again, defined up above.
And then we're actually going to
change the animation curve here.
If we're sliding out,
we want to say ease in.
And if we're sliding in,
we want to say ease out.
Why do we do this?
Well,
this view is going completely off screen.
So if we say ease in,
then we're going to watch the view
accelerate off screen and seem like
it's going off screen very quickly.
And if we say ease out,
it's going to gradually slow to a stop.
If we were to leave the default curve,
it would seem to accelerate off screen.
And then as it got off screen,
it would slow down a little bit.
You can also change this by changing
even where it goes off screen
so that when it gets off screen,
it's only halfway through your animation.
But it kind of makes more sense to
just change the animation curve itself.
And then finally,
we want to set the animations
delegate to ourselves so
that we know when we're done.
Then we need to actually do something,
right?
We've been setting up this animation.
Now we actually need to do
something with the animation.
If we're sliding out,
we can just set the rectangle's
origin to be the width of our bounds.
That means it will be
completely off screen.
If we're sliding back in,
we're going to do the same thing that
we did up here to calculate the origin
of the X so that it will return to
be exactly centered on the screen.
So now we calculated the new frame.
We need to set the
frame on the rectangle,
so we're setting that property.
In addition,
we're going to fade out the view.
So we call setAlphaSlideOut.
Whether we're sliding out,
we call it 0 or 1.
So that as it slides out, it fades out.
As it slides in, it fades in.
We then need to commit the animation.
[Transcript missing]
It automatically slides out.
Click the button again.
Oh, we can't click the button again.
Hmm, right.
See, up here we began ignoring
interaction events,
but we never stopped
ignoring interaction events.
So now the app does not
respond to you at all.
Not ideal.
So what we need to do is we
need to resume the interaction.
So here we had set our
delegate to ourself.
When the animation finishes,
it will call by default,
the animationDidStopedFinished
context selector.
You can change this yourself
by setting what the selector
is going to be that's called.
In this case, we didn't.
When that happens, we want to call
endIgnoringInteractionEvents.
All right.
So if we do that--
You dismiss, leave return,
everything behaves nicely.
If you were to tap like crazy,
nothing behaves badly.
So that's a nice,
simple demo of how to use
animations and controls.
Can you go back to slides?
Thanks.
So that's pretty simple animations.
We're moving a view,
we're fading the view,
we're responding to controls,
pretty straightforward.
What if you wanted to
do fancier animations?
For instance,
in the demo that I showed you originally,
we supported rotation.
That's really cool.
That's one of the nice
features of the phone,
is this nice inherent rotation support.
How do we do this?
So that demo actually
uses a UIViewController.
UIViewControllers are the way to
create your app on the iPhone.
There is so much support built
into UIViewControllers that
you're going to want to use.
There's a category on UIViewController
called UIViewRotationCategory.
How does this work?
Well,
the first thing you have to do is you
need to tell that you support rotation.
So when the device gets rotated,
your controller will actually be called
shouldAutoRotateToInterface Orientation.
By default,
this only returns yes for portrait mode.
If you want to support other
orientations in your controller,
you need to return yes here.
Now, there are three parts to
this actual animation.
There's a header view, a footer view,
and the content view.
What do you mean?
All I have is my app, right?
What's a header view, a footer view,
and a content view?
This is actually fairly
common in our apps.
You'll see this all the time.
We have a header view, like a nav bar,
and a footer view here, like in Mail,
there's the buttons at the bottom,
or in iPod,
there's the tabs at the bottom,
for instance.
So how does this actually
play into the animation?
Oftentimes,
these are going to be changing
their complete styles when you
go to a different landscape.
For instance, the bar at the bottom has
a much different look when
you're in landscape mode.
It becomes shorter,
the buttons actually change
their types and all that stuff.
So actually animating that would
be pretty hard and cumbersome,
and it might not even look right.
You might want to have a completely
different layout in that case.
So what happens when the animation
happens is that the footer and
the header are going to slide off
screen while your content rotates.
And then when the content
has rotated 45 degrees,
they're going to start sliding
back on screen in their
new layout configurations,
so that they can change their look
when they're completely off screen.
This provides a very seamless experience.
So we'll see somewhat of a demo here.
So you can see that they're
going to be changing while
they're completely off screen.
Now because of this,
the animation actually happens
in two different stages.
The first is the first 45
degrees when they're sliding off.
The second is the next 45 degrees
when they're sliding back on.
Because of this, there are actually two
different calls that you get.
Once you say that, yes,
I support this interface orientation,
please rotate to it,
you will animate first half of
rotation to interface orientation
and the duration of this rotation.
And then you will get,
will animate second half of
rotation from interface orientation.
Note that the parameters
here are slightly different.
In the first one,
it's saying where you're
going to be animating to,
because by default,
your UI is currently in this
current interface orientation.
When the second one gets called,
the interface orientation for this
application has already been changed.
So it tells you where
you were coming from.
Both of them provide durations so
that you can do whatever you'd like.
You know how long this
animation is going to take.
So we need to do our
animation in two steps.
Each step will animate
our subviews halfway.
So in the demo earlier, when,
for instance,
the stars were moving from the top
right down into the bottom left,
they need to only move halfway
each time this callback happens.
Okay, so that's a little complex.
It's kind of hard to describe on slides.
Luckily, we'll walk through it in a bit.
But before we do that,
I want to talk a bit about
lower level animations.
So UI view animations give
you this capability to change
inherent properties on the view,
like its frame, its bounds, its alpha,
you know, pretty,
pretty -- there's a fair number of
properties that you can use there.
But what if you wanted
to do fancier animations?
What if you wanted to do-- you wanted
to move this view along a path.
You don't want to just say, well,
it goes from here to here.
You want to say, well,
it actually goes like this and back.
How do you do that?
Well, for that, you're going to want
to use core animation.
So lower level animations are
possible with core animation.
And this works incredibly
well with UI views.
For the most part, you can just say,
all right, I'm a UI view.
Let's do a core animation.
How do you do this?
Well, let's say that we have this path
that we want to move the view along,
and we have a view already.
The first thing we need to do is we
need to set up a keyframe animation by
calling ca_keyframe_animation_animation.
We then want to say that this animation
is changing the position property.
We want to set its path to this
CGPathRef that we were already given.
We want to set the delegate to ourself,
because it's good to set
the delegate to ourself.
That way,
we always get the callbacks we expect.
Then we want to set the Fill Mode to
Frozen and Removed on Completion to No.
And the reason we do this is so that the
animation remains after it has completed.
And then we say,
"View Layer Add Animation for
Key." So Layer gets the
CA Layer Banking Store for the view.
We say,
"Add Animation for Key," and you're done.
That's it.
Your animation will automatically
happen at the end of the run loop.
So that's pretty easy to do.
Now I want to actually show
you how to do that and also
support rotation in your apps.
So if we could go back
to the demo machine.
So now we're going to be looking
at the Restaurant Viewer app that
I showed you in the beginning.
A bunch of the code is
already written here.
It would take too much time
to go through all of it.
Luckily, the Restaurant Viewer is
also available for download.
It's associated with this session.
So if you go to your attendee site,
you will easily find it.
So the first thing we need to do
when the app finishes launching,
because this is now a
UI view controller app,
is we need to actually set
up the view controller.
So we do this, and application did finish
launching in our delegate.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to create a new restaurant,
new demo restaurant.
Ideally, you would have a much more
complex backing model.
In our case, we don't need it.
We then set the ViewController's
restaurant to be that restaurant.
We're going to release the restaurant,
and we're going to add the
ViewController to the restaurant.
I'm sorry,
the ViewController's view to our window.
So when we do that--
does this actually work?
Nothing, right?
OK.
We've created a view controller.
We've added its view to our view.
But the view controller
doesn't actually do anything.
So, oh, well, that's because we have
nothing in LoadView.
So what do we want to do in LoadView?
The first thing we want to do is we
want to create this restaurant view.
So we do that by calling restaurantView
alloc and it with restaurant,
the restaurant that we already have.
And then we call size to fit.
So the restaurant view will automatically
size to fit properly in our display.
We had that Categorizer
button below this,
so we want to create that.
Again,
it's just a UI button type rounded rect.
We're going to set its
title to Categorize.
We're going to add a target of
ourself for the action Categorize,
and again,
for UI control event touch up inside.
And then we're going to tell
it as well to size to fit.
But actually,
we want to tweak its size a bit.
We want its height to be
whatever it expects it to be,
by calling size to fit.
But we want to make its width as
wide as our restaurant viewer is.
So we get the frame of the button,
and we then forcibly set its width
to be our restaurant view's width.
The next line you can ignore for now.
I'll come back to it.
It's a little confusing.
And finally, we set the frame on
the Categorizer button.
We then need to add
these views somewhere.
Well, let's add them to our
custom centering view class.
The centering view basically
lays things all out nicely and
vertically on a center line.
And we're going to set up
that centering view's width
to be the main screen's width.
We set the view controller's
view to be that centering view.
We don't need to retain it anymore.
And then we add our restaurant
view and our categorize
button to the center in view.
So what do we get now?
That looks a lot nicer.
Unfortunately,
it doesn't really do anything.
We rotate.
It doesn't.
If we click the Categorize button,
I'm not actually going
to because it will crash.
The reason it crashes is because
we did set up this selector before,
but we didn't actually implement
a categorized selector on here.
So it will try to call that,
and it will throw an exception.
So the first thing I want to show you
how to do is how to support rotation.
So we said earlier, should auto rotate to
interface orientation?
In our case,
the only interface orientation we do
not natively support is UI interface
orientation portrait upside down.
By default,
apps on the phone that you see rotate
will not support portrait upside down.
It's kind of a weird thing.
When you do that,
the user then loses their spatial
relation to where the phone is.
So it's best to, you know,
if you're going to be
doing a portrait mode,
only do it in the normal portrait mode,
unless you have a reason
to flip it upside down.
We then have the will animate first half
of rotation to interface orientation
and will animate second half of
rotation from interface orientation.
Both of these are going to tell
the restaurant view size to
fit to interface orientation.
First stage, yes, and first stage, no.
So first stage is just a parameter we're
passing down to the restaurant view.
So how does this work?
Well, if we were to look at
the restaurant view,
So we have our basic setup stuff here.
If we scroll down to
size the fit first stage,
the restaurant view is pretty smart.
It knows to change its width
depending on whether it's in
portrait or landscape mode by calling
UI interface orientation is portrait.
It then does some nice layout
for all of its subviews as well.
It says, OK, well, actually,
you want to be this
width and this height,
and you want to be over here and whatnot.
All right, so you would think we're done,
right?
And when you rotated,
Things look pretty good, right?
Except for that you'll note
that everything moved in the
first half of the rotation.
By this 45 degree mark, they're done.
There's nothing more for them to do.
This actually looks a little weird
to the user because things are
moving not together with each other.
So the way we need to handle this is we
need to actually handle the first stage
parameter that we've passed in here.
We do that by saying, well,
if we're in the first stage,
then we actually only want to go
halfway to where we want to go.
All right, well, what does that mean,
really?
Halfway is going to be this
nice little function here.
takes an old rect and a new rect and
goes halfway for each of the points,
for the origin and for the size.
So when we do this now,
We will not be able to because
I need to uncomment that.
So now when we rotate, well,
the subviews still aren't
responding to that.
But you'll notice that the main view
animated very nicely between the two.
So what we need to do is we need
to make sure that our subviews
also respect this first stage,
second stage.
So for the description view,
before we set the frame,
we need to call that.
And for the title view--
And then finally,
for the rating view for the stars,
we want to change that.
So now, when we rotate,
everything is moving very nicely
from one orientation to another.
But if you look really closely,
I don't know if you can tell up there,
everything's a little blurry.
The description's a little blurry,
the stars are a little blurry,
and the title of the
restaurant got blurry.
Why did that happen?
We didn't really change much, right?
Well, actually what happens is that
when it's animating through,
at that 45 degree mark,
there are transforms
applied to all your points.
Your points are at 45 degrees.
You're trying to set these points.
All these points are
floating point numbers,
and things mess up.
So why do things mess up?
Well, in the centering view,
the way we've been centering is
by setting the frame of the views.
But the frame of the view
at a 45 degree angle,
where that origin is,
it's not exactly precise.
So the way we actually do this is
we get rid of all of this stuff.
And we actually want to
set the center of the view.
We're rotating around
the center of the view.
So the center is going
to stay a constant point,
no matter what that transform is.
So we grab the center.
We make sure that the center
is in the right place.
And then we set the center
of the subview to be that.
Now when we rotate,
you'll see that everything
remains nice and crisp,
no matter how many times you rotate,
because you are moving
from a solid point.
All right,
so now this app supports rotation.
That was pretty easy, right?
There wasn't that much to it.
A couple tips and tricks here and there.
What about the actual button?
So before I showed you
how to add the target,
so now we actually want
to respond to that target.
We don't want to crash when
the user clicks on the button.
So we need to implement the
selector that we had set up,
Categorize.
And for that,
we're going to create another view
controller called Categorizer here.
And then we want to present modal view
controller Categorizer animated yes.
So when we do this--
It nicely pops up a sheet.
The sheet doesn't do anything,
but it does dismiss nicely, so hey,
that looks cool.
What does the categorizer actually do?
When you actually click on
any one of those buttons,
the categorizer is actually
set in the interface builder.
And when you click on
any one of those buttons,
it sends the categorize action.
So the first thing we
want to do is we want to,
you know, we're not actually going to be
changing the model here at all.
This is just a demo.
But we want to animate this nicely.
So the first thing we're
going to do is track all the
buttons that this one is not.
So Japanese, Chinese, Italian, French,
which one isn't the sender
that was actually passed along,
and add it to this other button's IVAR.
And then we're actually going
to animate the view of the
restaurant label to the button.
So what does that do?
Well, first thing it does is it
grabs the destination rect.
It then sees whether
the rect is equal to 0,
just to make sure that we are
animating to someplace sane.
We're going to begin
ignoring interaction events,
like we saw earlier.
And then we're going to
have a little trick here.
We're going to be animating this
restaurant label view down to the button,
as you saw in the original demo.
When we do that,
it's possible for the other buttons
to be higher up in the view hierarchy
than the label that we're animating.
And so it might seem to pass behind
some buttons and in front of others.
You would expect it to always be on top.
So what we do is we get
all of our subviews,
and we make sure to exchange
the view that we're moving.
So exchange subview at index,
sublayers index of object view,
with subview at index, sublayers count,
minus 1.
This basically just
moves us to the front.
We're then going to create
a keyframe animation,
like we saw in that earlier slide.
We need to find where we're
actually moving this label to.
So that would be the center
of the button that we clicked,
which we grabbed here.
Next,
we're going to create a ballistic path,
as I like to call it.
So a CG path create mutable.
We get the view's frame.
We do some nice little math here.
I'm not going to really go
through how to create CG paths.
Basically, this is going to make the view
animate up and then back down again,
as if you were throwing
a ball into the hole.
We then need to add this ballistic
path to our keyframe animation.
So we set the path, we set the duration,
we set the delegate,
we set the fill mode and
removed on completion,
and then we add animation for key,
and we release, and that's it.
So what does this look like now?
Now when I click on French,
it goes very nicely there.
Well, that was exciting, but--
Right, two things here.
One, we ignored interaction events again.
And two,
that didn't really look like the demo.
In the demo,
it kind of rotated and it shrank.
The other buttons faded out, et cetera,
et cetera.
So how do we do that?
Well, we've already set up
this one animation here.
You can set up multiple animations.
And you can have the animations
behave on the same layers
that you've already animated.
So what we're going to do now,
so we've added this keyframe animation,
we're going to do the
Rotate Restaurant and
Dim Other Buttons animation.
So we're going to make sure that
it has the same duration as the
keyframe animation that we had up
here so that they behave together.
We're going to set the animation
delegate to ourself again.
We're then going to
rotate the label view.
We do this by getting
the view's transform,
and then applying a
rotation and also a scale,
because we want it to kind
of shrink down as it rotates.
And then we're going to
set the view's transform.
This is another animatable
property on the view.
It will automatically
animate nicely to this.
Finally, we want to take the other
buttons and fade them out.
So we saved off the other buttons before
when we initially clicked Categorize.
So we say button set alpha 0.
And then we want to commit animations.
Now when we run this--
[Transcript missing]
So the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to say,
all right, well,
was this our Rotate Restaurant and
Dim Other Buttons animation?
If so, let's begin another animation.
Let's call it Fade to Black.
Delegate to ourself,
same duration to keep
things nicely balanced.
And we're actually going to fade
out the name of the restaurant.
So now when we run this, awesome,
we can see French.
This was a great example of stacking
animations on top of each other.
As soon as the first animation finished,
the next animation fired off.
Of course, we are still blocking user
interface interaction stuff,
so we need to handle
this finished as well.
So first we check, you know,
is it equal to this string?
Well, it's not.
So is it equal to fade to black?
OK, well, then we want to end
ignoring interaction events.
And it would be nice to also--
we've already categorized this,
so call self-cancel on
this view controller.
And that makes the view
controller slide out,
and we have control again.
So that is the Restaurant Viewer demo.
So pretty simple, right?
For more information,
Derek Horn is our application
frameworks evangelist.
His email is there, derek@apple.com.
In addition,
documentation from the iPhone Dev Center,
as I'm sure you're all familiar with.
Both of the samples that I used
here are available to be downloaded,
the simple animation sample and
the restaurant viewer sample.
There's some related sessions
that you might want to see.
The first one is optimizing
performance in iPhone applications.
Now,
one of the things I talked about here
was set up all these different subviews.
None of these examples really
use drawRect very much.
The restaurant view did a bit
to do that nice rounded rect,
but pretty much everything
was done with subviews.
That's awesome for animations.
It's awesome for
maintainability of your apps.
It can be not so awesome for performance.
So sometimes you may actually want to
do a drawRect versus using subviews.
Sometimes it's actually more
performant to use subviews.
This talk will actually really give you
a good idea of when to use this or that.
Another example talk to go
to is the How Do I Do That?
Tips and Tricks for iPhone
Application Development.
This will go into this stuff
in more detail and present tons
of other really awesome tricks.
There are a couple of labs to attend.
The iPhone Controls, Views,
and Animation lab is today at 2:00 PM.
And there's also a generic
UIKit lab today at 3:30 PM,
both in the iPhone lab.
In summary, use the built-in controls
that we provide you.
There's a lot of them.
Look at the UI Catalog example.
There's tons of examples of
different controls that you can use.
I only gave you three.
Use multiple views to place
your content efficiently.
Use UI view animations to
move content around as needed
because they're very fast.
They use core animation
for you automatically.
You don't have to worry about them.
And finally,
I talked about this in the beginning,
I want to bring this home again.
Animations are not just nice candy.
You really want to use them to
present context to your users,
so users know when you're moving
from one thing to another.
They keep a solid frame of
reference via the animations.